Jon strabala patch 3 (#1152)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/eventing/pages/eventing-lifecycle.adoc

= The Eventing Lifecyle
:page-edition: Enterprise Edition

[abstract]

> To add a new Eventing Function and to breifly explore the Eventing Lifecycle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to add a new Eventing Function and briefly explores the Eventing Lifecycle.
```

[#eventing_lifecyle_image]
image::lifecycle_overview_notitle.png[,%100]

This is a quick introduction to Eventing via creating a simple Eventing Handler and subsequently excercising the Eventing 
handler's functionality operations across its typical lifecyle (for a deeper insight refer to the more detailed xref:eventing-examples.adoc[Eventing Examples])

[#eventing_examples_preparations]
. From the Couchbase Web Console > *Eventing* page, click *ADD FUNCTION*.

> . An empty *ADD FUNCTION* dialog with defaults is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the Couchbase Web Console > *Eventing* page, click *ADD FUNCTION*.
+
An empty *ADD FUNCTION* dialog is shown:
```
The second point is not really a step by itself

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

+
image::addfunc_01_empty_settings.png[,484]

> . In the *ADD FUNCTION* dialog, for individual Function elements allows the developer to provide the below information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
The *ADD FUNCTION* dialog enables the developer to provide the following information:
```
Not really a step by itself

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

The default is 60.

| Bindings
| A binding is a construct that allows separating environment specific variables (example: bucket names, external endpoint URLs, credentials) from the handler source code.  Currently Eventing Functions support either *Bucket Bindings* (to access KV data) or *URL Bindings* to communicate externally via cURL. An Eventing Function can have no binding, one binding, or several bindings.

For more information on Bindings, refer to xref:eventing-Terminologies.adoc#section_mzd_l1p_m2b[Bindings].
|===

. *Prerequisites*: In order to show the basic life cycle of adding an Eventing Function we need a 'source' bucket and a metadata *metadata*. You must have a bucket typically called *metadata* used solely by Eventing if it is misisng create it with a minimum size of 100MB.  For the source bucket we will use 'travel-sample' sample document set. 
+
If you don’t already have the sample bucket *beer-sample* listed in the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page you can load this document set as follows:

** Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Settings* page
** Select the *Sample Buckets* in the upper right banner. 
** Check *beer-sample* checkbox.

> ** Click *Load Sample Data*.

Reviewer: The prerequisites should come _before_ the procedure, i.e. before `#eventing_examples_preparations`. If the users have followed the steps to this point, and then find that they don't have a `metadata` bucket or a `beer-sample` bucket, they'll have to cancel the dialog and start again, which is a bad user experience.

Also please note the following suggestions:
```suggestion
*Prerequisites*: In order to show the basic life cycle of adding an Eventing Function we need a source bucket and a metadata bucket. You must have a metadata bucket, typically called *metadata*, to be used solely by Eventing -- if it is missing, create it with a minimum size of 100MB. For the source bucket we will use the *beer-sample* sample document set. 
+
If you don’t already have the sample bucket *beer-sample* listed in the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page you can load this document set as follows:

** Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Settings* page
** Select the *Sample Buckets* in the upper right banner. 
** Check *beer-sample* checkbox.
** Click *Load Sample Data*.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

> . To get to the next screen *ADD FUNCTION* dialog, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *ADD FUNCTION* dialog, enter the following information:
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

 ** For the *Source Bucket* drop-down, select *beer-sample*.  
 ** For the *Metadata Bucket* drop-down, select *metadata*.
 ** Enter *my_evt_function* as the name of the Function you are creating in the *Function Name* text-box.
 ** [Optional Step] Enter text *A simple Eventing Function only prints IDs*, in the *Description* text-box.
 ** For the *Settings* option, use the default values.
 ** For the *Bindings* option, don't add any bindings (we will merely be logging messages).
+
image::addfunc_02_settings.png[,484]
. After providing all the required information in the *ADD FUNCTION* dialog, click *Next: Add Code*.
The *delete_orphaned_txns* dialog appears.
** The *my_evt_function* dialog initially contains a placeholder code block.
You will accept the default for your *my_evt_function code*.
+
image::addfunc_03_editor_with_default.png[,100%]

> ** Click *Save*.

Reviewer: I found that the **Save** button was unavailable. I had to make at least one change and undo it before I could save the boilerplate code. Please check if this step is necessary and remove it if not.

Author: You are correct it comes in as a default and a Save is not neeeded.

> ** To return to the Eventing screen, click the '*< back to Eventing*' link (below the editor) or click *Eventing* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To return to the Eventing screen, click the '*< back to Eventing*' link (below the editor) or click the *Eventing* tab.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

. Click on the Function name.
+
image::addfunc_04_newundeployed.png[,100%]

> Additional controls are now displayed, the controls are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional controls are now displayed. The controls are:
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

 ** *Delete*: Deletes the Eventing Function from the system.
 ** *Export*: Exports the EventingFunction as a JSON document.
 ** *Deploy*: Deploys the EventingFunction, making it active across the cluster.

>  ** *Pause*: Pauses the EventingFunction, making it active across the cluster (only allowed if Deployed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ** *Export*: Exports the Eventing Function as a JSON document.
 ** *Deploy*: Deploys the Eventing Function, making it active across the cluster.
 ** *Pause*: Pauses the Eventing Function, making it active across the cluster (only allowed if Deployed).
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

 ** *Edit JavaScript*: Allows edits to be made on the Eventing Function, in an edit dialog (only allowed when Paused or Undeployed).

. From the *Eventing* screen, click *Deploy*.

> ** In the *Confirm Deploy Function* dialog, select *Everything from the Feed boundary* option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In the *Confirm Deploy Function* dialog, select *Everything* from the *Feed boundary* option.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

+

> The Feed Boundary determines whether documents previously in existence needs to be included in the Function's activities: the options are *Everything* and *From now*. The *Everything* option invokes a Function on all mutations available in the cluster The *From now* option invokes a Function during future instances of data mutation, post Function deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Feed Boundary determines whether documents previously in existence need to be included in the Function's activities: the options are *Everything* and *From now*. The *Everything* option invokes a Function on all mutations available in the cluster. The *From now* option invokes a Function during future instances of data mutation, post Function deployment.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

** Click *Deploy Function*.

. The Eventing function is deployed and starts running within a few seconds. From this point, the defined Function is executed on all existing documents and on subsequent mutations.
+
This simple example is listing to the bucket 'beer-sample' which has 7,303 documents.  The only thing the function does is print the ID of each document.

> . Once the Eventing Function is fully deployed it's status will change form *deploying...* to a status of *deployed* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once the Eventing Function is fully deployed its status will change from *deploying...* to a status of *deployed*. 
```

> . Verify actually worked by clicking the *Log* link that appeared after you deployed the Eventing Function in the right hand side of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify the deployment by clicking the *Log* link that appeared after you deployed the Eventing Function in the right hand side of the screen.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

** A dialog showing the *Function Log - my_evt_function* will appear with the most recent logging information (in reverse order with the most recent lines first).
+
image::addfunc_05_logs_emitted.png[,700]

> ** Click *Close*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Close*.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

. To pause and resume a function (you can then edit and update the function without missing a mutation)  

> ** Click *Pause* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Pause*.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

** In the *Confirm Pause Function* dialog
*** Click *Pause Function*.
** The Eventing function will now pause.
** Wait for the "paused" state.

> ** Click *Resume* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Resume*.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

** In the *Confirm Resume Function* dialog
*** Click *Resume Function*.
** The Eventing function will now resume.

. To remove the Eventing Function *my_evt_function*  

> ** Click *Undeploy* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Undeploy*.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

** In the *Confirm Undeploy Function* dialog
*** Click *Undeploy Function*.
** The Eventing function will now undeploy.
** Wait for the "undeployed" state.

> ** Click *Delete* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Delete*.
```

Reviewer: Added to separate commit

> = The Eventing Lifecyle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= The Eventing Lifecycle
```

:page-edition: Enterprise Edition
:page-aliases: eventing-adding-function

[abstract]
To add a new Eventing Function and to breifly explore the Eventing Lifecycle

[#eventing_lifecyle_image]
image::lifecycle_overview_notitle.png[,%100]

This is a quick introduction to Eventing via creating a simple Eventing Handler and subsequently excercising the Eventing 

> handler's functionality and operations across its typical lifecyle (for a deeper insight refer to the more detailed xref:eventing-examples.adoc[Eventing Examples])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a quick introduction to Eventing via creating a simple Eventing Handler and subsequently exercising the Eventing 
Handler's functionality and operations across its typical lifecycle. For a deeper insight refer to the more detailed xref:eventing-examples.adoc[Eventing Examples].
```

. The Eventing function is deployed and starts running within a few seconds. From this point, the defined Function is executed on all existing documents and on subsequent mutations.
+
image::input-output-overview-6.5.png[,%100]
+

> This simple example here only has a log(....) statement in the *OnUpdate* handler that will merely list items in the bucket 'beer-sample', e.g. 7,303 documents. Basically only thing the function does is print the key or ID of each document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This simple example only has a log(....) statement in the *OnUpdate* handler that will merely list items in the bucket 'beer-sample', i.e. 7,303 documents. Basically the only thing the function does is print the key or ID of each document.
```
